README.md, before:

# WireBalancer

A high-performance outbound load balancer that uses multiple WireGuard connections and exposes SOCKS5 proxies for intelligent traffic routing.

## Why WireBalancer?

This project was born out of the need for a fast and easy way to distribute outbound traffic across multiple WireGuard VPN connections. Whether you're looking to increase bandwidth, improve redundancy, or manage geo-distributed traffic, WireBalancer provides a simple solution.
This is especially useful for applications that require multiple IP addresses or need to bypass geo-restrictions, censorship or rate limits imposed by certain services (e.g., web scraping, API access).

## Features

- **High Performance**: Optimized Go implementation with connection pooling and buffer reuse
- **Load Balancing**: Random or specific WireGuard connection selection
- **SOCKS5 Proxy**: Industry-standard SOCKS5 protocol support
- **Web dashboard**: Minimal web dashboard with live statistics
- **Health Checks**: Automatic connection health monitoring with configurable intervals

## Architecture

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              WireBalancer                  │
│                                            │
│  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐  │
│  │  SOCKS5  │  │  SOCKS5  │  │  SOCKS5  │  │
│  │  :9930   │  │  :9931   │  │  :9932   │  │
│  │ (Random) │  │  (WG0)   │  │  (WG1)   │  │
│  └────┬─────┘  └────┬─────┘  └────┬─────┘  │
│       │             │             │        │
│  ┌────▼─────────────▼─────────────▼─────┐  │
│  │           Connection Manager         │  │
│  └────┬─────────────┬─────────────┬─────┘  │
│       │             │             │        │
│  ┌────▼────┐   ┌────▼────┐   ┌────▼────┐   │
│  │  wg0    │   │  wg1    │   │  wg2    │   │
│  └─────────┘   └─────────┘   └─────────┘   │
│                                            │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────┐  │
│  │    Web Dashboard :9929               │  │
│  │    (Stats & Health Monitoring)       │  │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────┘  │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- WireGuard configuration files
- Root/sudo access (required for WireGuard)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/tomventa/wirebalancer.git
cd wirebalancer
```

2. Create your WireGuard configurations:
```bash
mkdir -p wireguard-configs
# Copy your WireGuard .conf files to this directory
cp /path/to/wg0.conf wireguard-configs/
cp /path/to/wg1.conf wireguard-configs/
```

3. Create your configuration file:
```bash
cp config.example.yml config.yml
# Edit config.yml to match your setup
```

4. Start the service:
```bash
docker compose up -d
```

5. Access the dashboard:
```
http://localhost:9929
```

## Configuration

### Configuration File (`config.yml`)

```yaml
wireguard:
  # Health check settings
  health_check_url: "https://cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace"
  health_check_interval: 30  # seconds
  failure_threshold: 3       # consecutive failures before marking unhealthy

  # WireGuard connections
  connections:
    - name: "US East"
      interface_name: "wg0"
      config_path: "/etc/wireguard/wg0.conf"
    
    - name: "EU West"
      interface_name: "wg1"
      config_path: "/etc/wireguard/wg1.conf"

proxy:
  base_port: 9930           # Starting port number
  read_timeout: 30          # Connection read timeout (seconds)
  write_timeout: 30         # Connection write timeout (seconds)
  failure_http_code: 580    # Error code for unhealthy connections
  buffer_size: 32768        # Data transfer buffer size (bytes)

webserver:
  port: 9929                # Web dashboard port
```

## Port Mapping

| Port | Description |
|------|-------------|
| 9929 | Web dashboard (HTTP) |
| 9930 | SOCKS5 proxy - Random connection selection |
| 9931 | SOCKS5 proxy - WireGuard connection 0 |
| 9932 | SOCKS5 proxy - WireGuard connection 1 |
| 9933 | SOCKS5 proxy - WireGuard connection 2 |
| ... | Additional connections as configured |

## Usage

### SOCKS5 Proxy

#### Using curl with random connection:
```bash
curl -x socks5://localhost:9930 https://api.ipify.org
```

#### Using curl with specific connection:
```bash
# Use first WireGuard connection
curl -x socks5://localhost:9931 https://api.ipify.org

# Use second WireGuard connection
curl -x socks5://localhost:9932 https://api.ipify.org
```

#### Python example:
```python
import requests

proxies = {
    'http': 'socks5://localhost:9930',
    'https': 'socks5://localhost:9930'
}

response = requests.get('https://api.ipify.org', proxies=proxies)
print(response.text)
```

#### Browser configuration:
Configure your browser to use SOCKS5 proxy:
- Host: `localhost`
- Port: `9930` (or specific port for dedicated connection)

## Building from Source

### Without Docker:

```bash
# Install dependencies
go mod download

# Build
go build -o wirebalancer .

# Run (requires root for WireGuard)
sudo ./wirebalancer -config config.yml
```

### With Docker:

```bash
docker build -t wirebalancer .
docker run --cap-add=NET_ADMIN --cap-add=SYS_MODULE \
  -v $(pwd)/config.yml:/app/config.yml \
  -v $(pwd)/wireguard-configs:/etc/wireguard \
  -p 9929:9929 -p 9930-9935:9930-9935 \
  wirebalancer
```

## Monitoring

### Web Dashboard

Access the real-time dashboard at `http://localhost:9929`:

- Total requests across all connections
- Individual connection statistics
- Health status for each WireGuard connection
- Average latency per connection
- Uptime tracking

### API Endpoint

Get JSON statistics programmatically:

```bash
curl http://localhost:9929/api/stats
```

Response:
```json
{
  "total_requests": 1234,
  "uptime": "2h15m30s",
  "uptime_seconds": 8130,
  "connections": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "name": "US East",
      "healthy": true,
      "request_count": 456,
      "average_latency": "45ms",
      "latency_ms": 45.2,
      "last_check": "14:30:15"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Performance Optimization

The application is designed for high performance:

1. **Connection Pooling**: Reuses buffers and connections
2. **Concurrent Processing**: Each proxy port runs in its own goroutine
3. **Zero-copy Operations**: Efficient data transfer between connections
4. **Atomic Operations**: Lock-free statistics tracking
5. **Buffer Pool**: Shared buffer pool reduces GC pressure

## Troubleshooting

### WireGuard interfaces not coming up

1. Check WireGuard configuration files are valid
2. Ensure container has proper capabilities (`NET_ADMIN`, `SYS_MODULE`)
3. Verify kernel modules are loaded: `lsmod | grep wireguard`

### Connections marked as unhealthy

1. Check WireGuard connection: `docker exec wirebalancer wg show`
2. Verify routing: `docker exec wirebalancer ip route`
3. Test connectivity: `docker exec wirebalancer ping 8.8.8.8`
4. Check logs: `docker compose logs -f wirebalancer`

### SOCKS5 proxy not working

1. Verify the proxy is listening: `netstat -tlnp | grep 9930`
2. Check application logs for errors
3. Test with curl: `curl -v -x socks5://localhost:9930 https://google.com`

## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub Issues: https://github.com/tomventa/wirebalancer/issues
- Documentation: Check this README and example configurations

Commit message:

Update documentation and add troubleshooting section to Quickstart guide

README.md, after:

# WireBalancer

A high-performance outbound load balancer that uses multiple WireGuard connections and exposes SOCKS5 proxies for intelligent traffic routing.

## Why WireBalancer?

This project was born out of the need for a fast and easy way to distribute outbound traffic across multiple WireGuard VPN connections. Whether you're looking to increase bandwidth, improve redundancy, or manage geo-distributed traffic, WireBalancer provides a simple solution.
This is especially useful for applications that require multiple IP addresses or need to bypass geo-restrictions, censorship or rate limits imposed by certain services (e.g., web scraping, API access).

## Features

- **High Performance**: Optimized Go implementation with connection pooling and buffer reuse
- **Load Balancing**: Random or specific WireGuard connection selection
- **SOCKS5 Proxy**: Industry-standard SOCKS5 protocol support
- **Web dashboard**: Minimal web dashboard with live statistics
- **Health Checks**: Automatic connection health monitoring with configurable intervals

## Architecture

```
┌────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│              WireBalancer                  │
│                                            │
│  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐  ┌──────────┐  │
│  │  SOCKS5  │  │  SOCKS5  │  │  SOCKS5  │  │
│  │  :9930   │  │  :9931   │  │  :9932   │  │
│  │ (Random) │  │  (WG0)   │  │  (WG1)   │  │
│  └────┬─────┘  └────┬─────┘  └────┬─────┘  │
│       │             │             │        │
│  ┌────▼─────────────▼─────────────▼─────┐  │
│  │           Connection Manager         │  │
│  └────┬─────────────┬─────────────┬─────┘  │
│       │             │             │        │
│  ┌────▼────┐   ┌────▼────┐   ┌────▼────┐   │
│  │  wg0    │   │  wg1    │   │  wg2    │   │
│  └─────────┘   └─────────┘   └─────────┘   │
│                                            │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────┐  │
│  │    Web Dashboard :9929               │  │
│  │    (Stats & Health Monitoring)       │  │
│  └──────────────────────────────────────┘  │
└────────────────────────────────────────────┘
```

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Docker and Docker Compose
- WireGuard configuration files
- Root/sudo access (required for WireGuard)

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/tomventa/wirebalancer.git
cd wirebalancer
```

2. Create your WireGuard configurations:
```bash
mkdir -p wireguard-configs
# Copy your WireGuard .conf files to this directory
cp /path/to/wg0.conf wireguard-configs/
cp /path/to/wg1.conf wireguard-configs/
```

3. Create your configuration file:
```bash
cp config.example.yml config.yml
# Edit config.yml to match your setup
```

4. Start the service:
```bash
docker compose up -d
```

5. Access the dashboard:
```
http://localhost:9929
```

## Configuration

### Configuration File (`config.yml`)

```yaml
wireguard:
  # Health check settings
  health_check_url: "https://cloudflare.com/cdn-cgi/trace"
  health_check_interval: 30  # seconds
  failure_threshold: 3       # consecutive failures before marking unhealthy

  # WireGuard connections
  connections:
    - name: "US East"
      interface_name: "wg0"
      config_path: "/etc/wireguard/wg0.conf"
    
    - name: "EU West"
      interface_name: "wg1"
      config_path: "/etc/wireguard/wg1.conf"

proxy:
  base_port: 9930           # Starting port number
  read_timeout: 30          # Connection read timeout (seconds)
  write_timeout: 30         # Connection write timeout (seconds)
  failure_http_code: 580    # Error code for unhealthy connections
  buffer_size: 32768        # Data transfer buffer size (bytes)

webserver:
  port: 9929                # Web dashboard port
```

## Port Mapping

| Port | Description |
|------|-------------|
| 9929 | Web dashboard (HTTP) |
| 9930 | SOCKS5 proxy - Random connection selection |
| 9931 | SOCKS5 proxy - WireGuard connection 0 |
| 9932 | SOCKS5 proxy - WireGuard connection 1 |
| 9933 | SOCKS5 proxy - WireGuard connection 2 |
| ... | Additional connections as configured |

## Usage

### SOCKS5 Proxy

#### Using curl with random connection:
```bash
curl -x socks5://localhost:9930 https://api.ipify.org
```

#### Using curl with specific connection:
```bash
# Use first WireGuard connection
curl -x socks5://localhost:9931 https://api.ipify.org

# Use second WireGuard connection
curl -x socks5://localhost:9932 https://api.ipify.org
```

#### Python example:
```python
import requests

proxies = {
    'http': 'socks5://localhost:9930',
    'https': 'socks5://localhost:9930'
}

response = requests.get('https://api.ipify.org', proxies=proxies)
print(response.text)
```

#### Browser configuration:
Configure your browser to use SOCKS5 proxy:
- Host: `localhost`
- Port: `9930` (or specific port for dedicated connection)

## Building from Source

### Without Docker:

```bash
# Install dependencies
go mod download

# Build
go build -o wirebalancer .

# Run (requires root for WireGuard)
sudo ./wirebalancer -config config.yml
```

### With Docker:

```bash
docker build -t wirebalancer .
docker run --cap-add=NET_ADMIN --cap-add=SYS_MODULE \
  -v $(pwd)/config.yml:/app/config.yml \
  -v $(pwd)/wireguard-configs:/etc/wireguard \
  -p 9929:9929 -p 9930-9935:9930-9935 \
  wirebalancer
```

## Monitoring

### Web Dashboard

Access the real-time dashboard at `http://localhost:9929`:

- Total requests across all connections
- Individual connection statistics
- Health status for each WireGuard connection
- Average latency per connection
- Uptime tracking

### API Endpoint

Get JSON statistics programmatically:

```bash
curl http://localhost:9929/api/stats
```

Response:
```json
{
  "total_requests": 1234,
  "uptime": "2h15m30s",
  "uptime_seconds": 8130,
  "connections": [
    {
      "index": 0,
      "name": "US East",
      "healthy": true,
      "request_count": 456,
      "average_latency": "45ms",
      "latency_ms": 45.2,
      "last_check": "14:30:15"
    }
  ]
}
```

## Performance Optimization

The application is designed for high performance:

1. **Connection Pooling**: Reuses buffers and connections
2. **Concurrent Processing**: Each proxy port runs in its own goroutine
3. **Zero-copy Operations**: Efficient data transfer between connections
4. **Atomic Operations**: Lock-free statistics tracking
5. **Buffer Pool**: Shared buffer pool reduces GC pressure

## Quick start

See [Quickstart.md](Quickstart.md) for a step-by-step guide to get started quickly.


## License

MIT License - See LICENSE file for details

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please feel free to submit a Pull Request.

## Support

For issues and questions:
- GitHub Issues: https://github.com/tomventa/wirebalancer/issues
- Documentation: Check this README and example configurations
